docs: Migrate Existing Tasks page for ECS (#11048)
hashicorp/consul: website/content/docs/ecs/get-started/migrate-existing-tasks.mdx

---
layout: docs
page_title: Migrate Existing Tasks - AWS ECS
description: >-
  Migrate Existing Tasks
---

# Migrate Existing Tasks

> This guide explains how to migrate your existing ECS Tasks to use our [`mesh-task` Terraform module](https://registry.terraform.io/modules/hashicorp/consul-ecs/aws/latest/submodules/mesh-task).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This topic describes how to migrate your existing ECS Tasks to use our [`mesh-task` Terraform module](https://registry.terraform.io/modules/hashicorp/consul-ecs/aws/latest/submodules/mesh-task).
```
Super minor thing up and totally up for discussion, but I think it would be a good idea to refer to this type of content as 'topics' so we can make it a little clearer internally that we mean a general procedure or process in the documentation. This would be opposed to a larger set of procedures targeting a specific goal, which is how I think of 'tutorials'.

Author: I had this exact thought! "Not sure if this is a guide or a tutorial or what" 😄

In order to add the necessary sidecar containers for your task to join the mesh,
you must use the [`mesh-task` module](https://registry.terraform.io/modules/hashicorp/consul-ecs/aws/latest/submodules/mesh-task).

The `mesh-task` module uses inputs similar to your old ECS task definition but
creates a new version of the task definition with additional containers.

The `mesh-task` module is used as follows:

```hcl
module "my_task" {
  source  = "hashicorp/consul/aws-ecs//modules/mesh-task"
  version = "<latest version>"

  family                = "my_task"
  container_definitions = [
    {
      name         = "example-client-app"
      image        = "docker.io/org/my_task:v0.0.1"
      essential    = true
      portMappings = [
        {
          containerPort = 9090
          hostPort      = 9090
          protocol      = "tcp"
        }
      ]
      cpu         = 0
      mountPoints = []
      volumesFrom = []
    }
  ]

  port       = "9090"
  retry_join = "<address of the Consul server>"
}
```

The main differences are:

- You must remove the `execution_role_arn` and `task_role_arn` fields. The `mesh-task` module will create the task and execution roles.

> - You must add the `port` field. This is the port that your application listens on.

Reviewer 2: Or set `outbound_only` to `true` if the application is not listening on any port (i.e. not a server)

- You must add the `retry_join` field. This specifies the location of your Consul servers so that your task can join the mesh.
- You must remove the `jsonencode()` function from the `container_definitions` field.

The `mesh-task` module will create a new version of your task definition with the
necessary sidecar containers added so you can delete your existing `aws_ecs_task_definition`
resource.

> Now that your task(s) are migrated to the `mesh-task` module, see the [Installation Guide](/docs/ecs/get-started/install) to continue installing

Reviewer 3: Should this link to the routing subsection heading since they've already done the first part of that page?

Author: Since I didn't mention the ECS service here, I created a new `ECS Service` section in the Installation guide and linked to that instead.

I also added a `Next Steps` section here, and included a link to the mesh-task inputs reference.

Reviewer 3: ahh gotcha. Sounds good.
